A hot air balloon caught fire and crashed after colliding with a power line in Virginia Friday night, prompting a search for the three passengers thought to be on board, authorities said.

Virginia State Police received calls about a balloon crash shortly before 8 p.m., police spokeswoman Corinne Geller told a news conference, according to several news media reports. She said a pilot and two passengers were believed to be on board, and that police believe it was the balloon's gondola that caught fire after it apparently struck a power line. 

The apparent crash happened near the Meadow Event Park in Caroline County, site of the Mid-Atlantic Balloon Festival, according to the news reports. The festival was scheduled to begin officially on Saturday, but was holding a special kickoff event Friday for a limited number of people, according to the reports, which said organizers have now canceled the rest of the festival.

State police, the Federal Aviation Administration, and local law enforcement and emergency workers called off an air search late Friday due to bad weather, officials told Reuters.

"State police report that bad weather elsewhere in the Richmond vicinity has grounded air search for the time being," Mid-Atlantic Balloon Festival organizers wrote on their website. 

Carrie Hager-Bradley said she saw the balloon in flames on her way home from the grocery store and heard people yelling, according to WWBT TV. 

"They were just screaming for anybody to help them," the station quoted her as saying. "`Help me, help me, sweet Jesus, help. I'm going to die. Oh my God, I'm going to die,"' Hager-Bradley said she heard one person screaming. 

She said her daughter witnessed what appeared to be one passenger on the balloon fall to the ground, according to the report.

Some hot air balloons landed safely in Debra Ferguson's yard, she was quoted by The Free Lance-Star of Fredericksburg, Virginia, as saying.

She said one of the men in the balloons pointed up at another still in the air and said he thought it might be in trouble.

"As soon as we looked up, the thing blew up right there," the newspaper quoted Ferguson as saying. "All I heard was, `Oh my God, Oh my God,' and all you saw was the top of the balloon still flying, but all of the basket was gone. All of the flames just disappeared. ... It was like a match -- poof -- and then it was gone."

Caroline County resident Paula Dustin said she and her family and a friend were watching the balloons inflate and take off when they saw one in the distance that appeared to be in distress.

"We saw a glow, and you could tell the bottom of the balloon was in flames," Dustin was quoted by the newspaper as saying.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.